---
title: Algorithm musing
date: 2021-04-24T14:42:00.000Z
---

Recently I have been doing more coding interview prep, and I came across an
interesting problem, called Brick Wall on Leetcode:
**[Brick Wall](https://leetcode.com/problems/brick-wall/)**

I will shamelessly admit that I am taking Sai's solution from here, which may
have well been taken from somewhere else, but I must give credit where
credit is due.
[Sai's Solution](https://dilyar85.gitbooks.io/leetcode-solutions-with-analysis/content/Problems/554_brick_wall_java.html)

I will just put the description of the problem here as well:

There is a brick wall in front of you. The wall is rectangular and has several rows of bricks. The bricks have the same height but different width. You want to draw a vertical line from the top to the bottom and cross the least bricks.

The brick wall is represented by a list of rows. Each row is a list of integers representing the width of each brick in this row from left to right.

If your line go through the edge of a brick, then the brick is not considered as crossed. You need to find out how to draw the line to cross the least bricks and return the number of crossed bricks.

**You cannot draw a line just along one of the two vertical edges of the wall, in which case the line will obviously cross no bricks.**

**Solution**

```js
public class Solution {
    public int leastBricks(List<List<Integer>> wall) {
        if (wall == null || wall.size() == 0) return 0;
        Map<Integer, Integer> map = new HashMap<>();
        int count = 0;
        for (List<Integer> list : wall) {
            int end = 0;
            //cannot count the last edge cause it will be the max ending
            for (int i = 0; i < list.size() - 1; i++) {
                end += list.get(i);
                map.put(end, map.getOrDefault(end, 0) + 1);
                count = Math.max(count, map.get(end));
            }
        }
        return wall.size() - count;
    }
}
```

The things that struck me were:

- What should be returned isn't mentioned in the problem description (shame on you, leetcode problem enterer たち)。It does say what you want to do , but it doesn't explicitly state what value to return (tracking the horizontal index of where the line is drawn might be harder...).
- I thought that maybe you couldn't just update count to be the item with the most entries in the hash table, but the reason this works is that you can't experience the same number twice in the same row, so each time, you can safely update count if it exceeds the current greatest number of nooks for a given index. Since the index doesn't matter, in the end, it only matters which index of the hash table has the greatest number.

The answer requested is definitely the minimum number of bricks you would have to cut through on the most ideal path from top to bottom.
